[Music]
approaching the shores of Sicily you're
enjoying the views the wind brings
Pleasant coolness and you anticipate
your vacation but suddenly the boat
shakes and you lose balance you look up
and see a huge plume of black smoke
rising above the Etna volcano I'll
switch your perspective now because you
won't like what happens to you in the
next several minutes let's take a look
at the planet from space all across his
surface you see billowing spots of smoke
that's all the volcanoes on earth
starting to erupt at once smoke is kind
of a herald of what's to come it rises
first warning us of the danger and then
it varies for different volcanoes the
active ones like Etna in Sicily will
start spitting fire in rocks they
haven't been slumbering to start with so
the magma at their core is hot and
volatile smoking boulders will fire up
from the crater and fall on the ground
nearby while a fountain of lava spews up
and swiftly goes down the slopes the
temperature of this hot mess has
anywhere from 1,300 to 2200 degrees
Fahrenheit which is a bit too warm for
comfort anything this stream touches
will burst into flames at once but not
for long lava is molten rock and outside
the Earth's hot core it will soon cool
down and become solid what is left
afterwards is a grayish black mass that
looks kind of wavy other volcanoes will
have been sleeping for too long and
their stock of lava wasn't that huge to
begin with so they won't really make a
blast
rather lava will slowly flow over the
edge of the crater and pour down the
slopes with a bit of luck everyone in
the vicinity will be safe because the
hot stream won't reach much further than
the foothills or shall I say foot
volcanoes others still and they're
actually a vast majority are underwater
so their eruptions will be very
different when a submerged volcano
erupts no one on the surface will even
notice it
if they're just a bit away the water
right above the volcano will start
bubbling and its temperature will rise a
lot you'll probably also smell the
stench of rotten eggs that's methane and
sulfur coming from down below if you're
unfortunate enough to be in that exact
spot though you'll want it to be about a
couple of hundred degrees cooler there
might be a hefty amount of pumice
floating around
that's lava that cooled down in the
water and got filled with air bubbles
and then there are super volcanoes there
are only four of them on the planet the
most famous being the Yellowstone
supervolcano if even one of these giants
erupts it will do so much damage it will
change the landscape of a large part of
the continent it's on now like I said
all volcanoes on earth start erupting at
once it's a bad day I'm guessing a
Monday almost immediately they bring
disaster to their surrounding areas with
hot lava and rock fall as soon as that
stops smoke rises into the atmosphere
and ash starts falling to the ground it
looks like snow only black but ash is
heavy and clinging so when it falls on
two roofs of the buildings it clumps
together and soon makes them collapse
under its weight it's also very
dangerous to inhale this ash because it
blocks your Airways not letting you
breathe quite soon ash covers everything
it blankets all surfaces smothering
grass trees and bushes and they stop
producing oxygen smoke on the other hand
creates a full-blown Vale in the skies
above this Vale doesn't let the Sun
Shine through so the planet starts to
cool down by degrees it becomes colder
and colder until a new ice age begins if
there's still someone alive by this
point they'll have to deal with freezing
cold and huge glaciers far beyond their
typical area closer to the equator
though it might be warmer than elsewhere
so they'll still be hope but the irony
is that co2 is a greenhouse gas and
after a while its high concentration in
the atmosphere will
up the planet again the ice will draw
back and for some time earth will have a
good inhabitable climate but not nearly
long enough for life to thrive soon the
temperatures will rise to unbearable
values and it'll be scalding hot until
co2 goes away at least in part only then
the planet might begin to return to
normal but it may take thousands of
years meanwhile the oceans boil - there
are hundreds of underwater volcanoes and
they erupt as well throwing out
thousands of tons of gas and magma and
if magnet stays mostly on the bottom of
the sea gases go up and make the water
hide in acidic much of the marine life
can adapt to the changing conditions
this fast and lots of species face mass
extinction only the sturdiest remain and
those are microscopic creatures that
somehow survive boiling temperatures at
the crevices in the oceans bottom in the
next few hundred or even thousand years
life on Earth is virtually non-existent
about 95% of all living things are gone
it's basically the same as what happened
when a meteorite struck the planet in
the era of dinosaurs volcanoes have
wiped out life leaving only a veil of
darkness in the sky planes of ash and
solid magma on land an acid instead of
water in the ocean if you looked at the
earth from above you would only hardly
recognize the ones blue and green planet
but then after sufficient time is passed
earth will begin recovering at first
when carbon dioxide dissipates and the
temperature returns to more or less
normal plants will start appearing solid
magma and ash might make the land look
desolate but in fact there are a rather
good soil for the green if you look at
Kamchatka for example you'll see there's
grass and flowers and bushes springing
from the black mass around the less
active volcanoes so given enough time
the lands will become lush and blooming
with plant life probably more than ever
with the return of grass and trees
oxygen will start pumping into the
atmosphere when it's rich enough the air
will once again become breathable for
creatures with lungs but it will be a
very long time before they appear once
more
since most life is gone the cycle will
have to begin anew from the smallest
critters you can't even see with a naked
eye thousands of years pass and
evolution kicks in new and bigger
species appear they continue evolving
and growing different animal families
pop up and chances are very high they
don't resemble anything we've ever seen
on our planet they might have six legs
instead of four for all we know or even
two heads possibilities are endless and
finally at some point in the distant
future
there appears the first species that
learns to use tools for us these were
the primates for the earth of the future
they could be anything in any case when
they find sticks and stones and start
sharpening them to make steaks and
primitive axes it will be the first step
towards a new civilization in a few more
thousand years a new intelligent species
will begin building their homes on the
planet we use to claim for our own let's
just hope they won't have to deal with a
massive all-out volcanic eruption same
as our civilization did well
hypothetically of course
anyway back to the now what are the
chances of having such a disaster next
to naught in fact scientists point out
that there has never been an eruption of
this kind on earth and there's no
indication it might happen in the future
you see magma comes from the upper layer
of the Earth's mantle as it is mantle is
solid but it's so high that some parts
of it melts down becoming fluid rock
when a volcano erupts it means that the
pressure of this molten layer has become
too much and it needs to get out on the
surface once it does the volcano it
sprang from falls into slumber once more
only leaving traces of lava down its
slopes and hopefully no
calamities nearby so if all volcanoes on
earth were to erupt it would take an
extraordinary amount of excess magma in
the mantle and since there's not much of
it in the first place such a collective
explosion is next to impossible ah
that's a relief now about that big
asteroid approaching from over there
just kidding hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life